Throughput capacity in DynamoDB is the key measure
for how your tables will perform.
There aren't really any other attributes in the
table that you need to configure, but throughput isn't exactly that simple.
At its most basic,
it can be defined as the number of records you're
allowed to read or write per second,
up to 4 kilobytes for reading and 1 kilobyte for writing.
But there are so many caveats and details to that description
that it sometimes needs a full video to explain,
which is why we're here.
So let's talk through some scenarios to better understand how
this provisioned throughput thing works.
We'll start with a simple table of hamsters, like the one will set up
later in this module. We'll configure this table with 5 units of
provisioned throughput for reading and writing.
Now let's say we have six hamster records locally that
we're going to populate the table with.
If we do a batch write call,
it will essentially try and write all six records at once.
There are a couple of considerations here, how
large are the records? In our case,
they are only a few properties with not much text and come in at
under 100 bytes each. Dynamo will round up each,
write to 1 kilobyte if it's under,
so each write will consume 1 unit of provisioned throughput.
But wait, that means we'll be writing 6 units at once,
which exceeds our 5 provisioned units for writing.
Well.
In this case, you will have one of two things happen,
and you won't be able to really guarantee which will happen. Either the sixth
write will return a provisioned throughput exceeded exception or burst capacity
will be consumed and the write will go through.
AWS documentation says that burst capacity will be used when it can,
but there's no guarantee. This basically means if you occasionally exceed your
provisioned throughput, AWS may let the requests go through. Because we're
using the SDK, it actually already has built in code that retries if it gets a
provisioned throughput exceeded exception. So you'll likely rarely see that
error unless it's an extreme case.
Now let's look at reading the records once they've been populated.
Let's say you want to get all six records at once doing a scan.
There will be 6 reads that will happen within a second, and even though the
records are well below the 4 kilobytes reserved for each unit,
each will consume a full unit.
It'll round up. Except they won't,
because by default the SDK does an eventually consistent read.
If you're doing eventually consistent reads, you get double the reads per unit.
So each unit will give you two reads instead of one read, which
if you were doing a strongly consistent read,
you would only get one read out of that unit.
The consistency here relates to AWS replicating your data
across availability zones in a region.
Eventual consistency will get you the record,
but it may not have very recent changes to it.
Strong consistency ensures that you get the newest
version of a record with any changes,
no matter how recent. So, back to our hamsters, our scan of 6 items with
eventual consistency will actually only consume 3 read units,
which is quite convenient. Now we'll just run through another quick example.
Let's assume we've got a table with some binary items.
They're about 20 KB each.
How many units would it consume to read one item?
Well, if we're doing eventually consistent reads, it would take 3 read units.
Each unit in this consistency will hold up to 8 KB.
A 20 KB item will technically use 2.5 units, but AWS rounds up, so we've got 3.
What about if we wanted to read it with strong consistency? Now it would take
exactly 5 because each unit would only account for 4 KB.
Let's look at writing then, how many write units would it consume?
Unfortunately, there's no consistency discount for writing,
so a 20 KB item would consume 20 write units.
That's a lot more than reading for sure.
Hopefully,
those two examples have given you an idea of how
throughput is calculated in DynamoDB. In the next clip, we're going to talk about Dynamo keys and indexes.